14857 chars
In this video, I will be providing a high level overview of the flow-cal application in regards to how the data flows into the system, how we process that data, and then how you can export data out of the system. Before we get started, I just wanted to point out a few things here on this graphic. The middle portion represents task or processes that are happening outside of the flow-cal application. Then once we get to the middle of the screen where it says meter periodic, you can see the validation sieve from there to the right hand side of the screen are going to be all the processes that are happening within the application. On the far left, you have M1 through M6, which are physical meters out in the field. In the middle, you have your skater system or polling engine represented as a blue box there. From there, the skater system or the polling engine will then poll the meters at a certain frequency. As that process is happening, once that data is collected, then a CFX file may be created to then load into the flow-cal application. CFX files are flow-cal's proprietary format. They contain one meters data, and then they will also contain possibly up to a month's worth of data inside them. You'll see all of your volumetric data, analysis, and your meters configuration information in there. As those CFX files are provided to flow-cal, flow-cal has a file import service that will automatically load the data on a periodic basis. So basically, as soon as we receive the data, we will automatically import that into the flow-cal application. Another method of getting data into flow-cal might be more of a near-real-time system where you get a database to database feed. So what that means is you might also have a skater physically feeding the data directly to the flow-cal database without a file. So as soon as skater gets the data, it feeds it to flow-cal and it hits what we call the transaction queue. And then from there, we will then process that data from that queue and then import it into the meter periodic table. So the meter periodic table is the largest table that you'll see in the flow-cal database as it contains all of your meters' history. If you're reviewing data in flow-cal, that would be called the volume editor. That's where you're going to be able to view all of that information as you'll see as we go through the training. So as well that data comes in, flow-cal will immediately start scrubbing that data for any data anomalies. And so from there, within flow-cal, we have over 150 configurable validation limits per device that a user can set. Additionally, there are thousands of built-in validations based on the API and AGA standards. So if you are missing a specific field that's required by AGA or API to do a calculation, flow-cal will automatically alert you to that via an exception. If you set your own validation limits, you might be looking for your data to come in within a certain pressure range or differential range or temperature range, etc. If your data falls outside those limits, that you've defined, that will also generate an exception. So these are just some examples that you see at the bottom of the screen. So you could have low static pressure, high differential pressure, high gravity, or bad VCF, which stands for volume correlation factor, which we'll talk more about as we go through the training. Additional types of exceptions that you'll see are for like missing data. So if your meter has any missing data, you'll also be alerted to that via an exception. As an analyst, the exception resolver will be a screen that will need to be reviewed on a periodic basis as that data is being imported. So as we're importing the data and we're scrubbing that data on import, additionally we are also automatically rolling up the data into a meter, hourly, daily, and monthly resolution so that you can see the totals for your data as of right now. So for these, we call these the final form tables. So every time you import or every time you edit, flow cow will do this meter rollup process. To view this data within flow cow, it can be seen in the rollup viewer and also on various reports. Within flow cow, another important functionality that we have available is the availability to create locations. So locations are a specific type of object within flow cow that allows you to build relationships so that you can do balancing on your system. So in this particular example, we have M1 and M2 that are in a location by themselves. So that might be like a meter cell station. So we're wanting to find out the total of meter one plus meter two. The second location, which is highlighted there in blue, that is what we would consider a balanced location. So in this case, location A, which is a meter cell station, of course, is adding meter one and two together. And then in the balanced location, we're taking that total and then we're subtracting meter three and four to get the total of that balance. So to figure out what your gain and loss might be. So these relationships that you build with these locations are daytime effective. And you can track how that location might have changed over time, whether you have new meters coming online or maybe some meters of gun inactive or maybe you needed to reroute gas through another pipeline to get to its destination. So as you build these relationships, that data will also be rolled up by our location rollup services. So we'll automatically do the math and roll up the data from a location hourly, daily, and monthly perspective. That way, you can immediately go in and see what your balances are looking like or your meter cell station totals are looking like or your segments or inventories within full cow. So for example, if you're looking at the monthly total and you realize, you know, on your balance, you have a loss, you can then drill down into the day to see what day that issue might have started happening on. And you can also drill into the hourly data from there. Some other important information that you'll be importing into the flow cast system is your lab analysis information. So with flow cow, we have a tab-delimited text file that you'll need to have your labs provide that data in. And then from there, we can load it in via the file import service or you can also manually import it. But as that data comes in, it will hit the validation just like your meter data does. And from there, we will validate any set points that you have set up on your quality sources. So for example, you might want to set up a limit on your gravities, heating values, or any of the mole percentages such as methane, ethane, nitrogen, CO2, etc. As the data comes in, it will reside in the GQ source table. And so with the flow cow gas system, we have a gas quality source editor that that's where you'll be able to see all of that quality as it comes in. And the resolution of that will be determined by how often you receive samples. So you might receive samples monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, or annually. Once that data comes in, then you can also build a relationship from that source to your meter so that the data will automatically apply to those devices. So that's what we call the GQ source assignment. So that's where you build their relationship as far as what sample gets applied to what meter or meters. And then of course, when does that get applied and how does it get applied? Additionally, you can also pull in chromatograph data. So up in the far left of the screen, you'll see there's a GC1, so that stands for gas chromatograph. So you might have a gas chromatograph physically tied to a meter. And in that case, when this data system pulls meter one in this case, we're not only going to get the updated volumetric information, but we're going to get all of that updated quality as well. So you might be getting hourly data from your chromatograph. So all that data will come in via the CFX file. And then of course, from there, we're going to go through the same process as far as running validations and rolling up that data. But what you can do is you can also take that analysis from that meter that has a GC tied to it. And you can also push that to a source and then assign it to other devices if you like. So the one thing that's unique here is that the roll-up process is different for sources than it is for meters. So with sources, as you can see on this diagram, the quality source roll-ups are in blue, whereas the meter and location roll-ups are in gray. So the reason why that's a different color is because the source roll-ups do not happen automatically. So for these, you would need to configure your source to roll-up. And the reason why that is the case is because, you know, if you're importing samples from a lab that are monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, or annually, then there are already in a monthly type resolution. There's no need to roll those up. But when you have chromatograph data, you might be getting hourly data, quarter-hour data, or some other resolution. And from there, you might want to roll that up, seeing see what the hourly daily and monthly averages look like. Some other type of data you might load into the flowcat application is a third-party data, which is represented here by the off-system volume, or you might also have charts. Data coming in from a third-party or from charts would typically come in via our tab-delimited text file format, that way you can load that information in just like you would, say, a CFX file through the File-Import service. The only difference is that the data might just be a daily resolution instead of an hourly resolution. And of course, from there, we'll roll it up just like we do any other data. Sometimes if you're receiving data from a third-party, if they don't have our flowcat text file format, then they may only provide you like a CSV, or they might provide you just a PDF of the gas volume statement. So you have a couple options there. One is you can handkey the data in to flowcat. Or if you have a way to convert that data into our text file format, then you can automatically load it from there. And of course, if your customer or third-party that you're working with has flowcat, we do have a FC text file exchange export that you can use to automatically exchange data from one flowcat system to another. That makes it super easy to transfer data from your customer to yourself or vice versa, because it automatically puts that data into our tab-delimited text file format. Another piece of information that you'll see in flowcat is a test it information. If you've got the test it integration add-in, test it can be a standalone application that sits on the field technicians laptop that contains all the technician schedules and tasks that they might need to perform. As they finish those tasks on a weekly or biweekly basis, however often you want them to push data to flowcat, that information can then be imported into flowcat so that you can see those test reports inside the flowcat application. Additionally in the bottom we also have the Skater Request piece. So Skater Request is a feature that we've had for quite some time. This is something that comes with the flowcat system, but it does require that your Skater system has the functionality built in. So Skater Request, one of the main things that it can do is send requests to your Skater system if we are missing data in flowcat. So based on your polling cycle, let's say your polling cycle, you're expecting to get data every six hours coming into flowcat and let's say we're at hour 12 and we still haven't gotten data, we could have flowcows submit a request to the Skater system to go repull the meter. That's something you can configure on a per meter basis within the flowcat application. The other thing it can do is it can also support quality downloads. So if you're importing data from a lab, you might want to push that sample information back down to the meter through the Skater system. That's what we call quality downloads. So that's also part of the Skater Request functionality. So again, that feature exists in flowcat, but the main piece that needs to exist is that your Skater system or your polling engine has to have that interface built in so that it can connect to the flowcat database and process those requests. So as you can see, as we start importing data into the system, there's a lot of processes that are going to be happening automatically, such as importing the data to running validation, so then rolling that data up and applying quality. And then from there, you can also edit the data at any time. So within flowcow, you'll be running reports on demand or viewing that data within the volume editor, the quality editor, any of the other editors within the system. As you prepare for your month and close process, you'll definitely be running multiple reports throughout the month from the flowcat application. Within flowcow, we have over 140 built-in reports, and they were also developed with crystal reports. You can run those on demand or if you have the scheduler feature, you can actually schedule your reports to go out at some frequency. So you might want to schedule them to go out on an hourly, daily, or monthly basis. And the scheduler also gives you some additional options as far as how you want to send the data. So some customers might want to print that information directly to a printer. They might want to automatically email that information. So of course, email is the most common way of communication today. So that's how most companies send out information from flowcow. You can send it to coworkers within your organization or you might be sending data outside of your organization to your customers or anybody else that might need that information. So some specific reports you might schedule might be your gas volume statements, missing data reports, analysis reports, etc. Additionally, you can also have the scheduler push data out to a directory on the network. So that to work, the flowcow system must have access to that directory. And then additionally, we can also push data to a website. So since flowcow uses crystal reports as our reporting engine, we are able to export to different file formats such as HTML or XML, which is what you would use for your website. But you can also push data out to a PDF or Excel or other formats that we provide. Additionally, you might also use the scheduler to automatically push data to any downstream technical or financial application. In the bottom left, that just represents how you can connect to flowcow using Citrix or terminal services depending upon how your flowcow system has been implemented. So that concludes the flowcow overview. In the next section, we will talk about how to navigate the flowcow system.
